Se-tool-worksheet:
the-center-for-implementation
info@thecenterforimplementation.com
thecenterforimplementation.com© 2022 The Center for Implementation Inc.
StrategEase Tool
Worksheets
Click here to access the tool.
What is your vision of where you are going? Why are you doing this work?
Define your WHY
Getting started
Select the THING
Define the WHAT and the WHO
What is the THING you want to implement (e.g., program, guideline…)?
Describe all of the people / groups of people who are being asked to change. For
each WHO, describe WHAT they are being asked to do (the 7 Ps can help)!
WHO WHAT
Barrier / Facilitator #1
Assessing barriers & facilitators
Note: Duplicate this and the following pages for each WHO and WHAT you address
Select one WHO and WHAT. List the top barriers that emerge as the most
important/impactful. Ultimately, you will want to address as many barriers /
facilitators as possible, but we recommend starting with 3-5 barriers. Then you
can duplicate this page once you are ready to work through the others.
Barrier / Facilitator #2
Barrier / Facilitator #3
Barrier / Facilitator #4
Barrier / Facilitator #5
Select all domains that best match your barrier / facilitator.
Barrier / Facilitator
Mapping barriers & facilitators
Mapping to the Theoretical Domains Framework
Cane, J., O’Connor, D., & Michie, S. (2012). Validation of the theoretical domains framework for use in
behaviour change and implementation research. Implementation Science, 7(37).
https://doi.org/10.1186/1748-5908-7-37
Figure developed by The Center for Implementation
Note: Duplicate this page for each barrier / facilitator you address.
Write below your mapped domains.
Barrier / Facilitator
Selecting change strategies
Mapping to the Theoretical Domains Framework
Selecting strategies
Write below the selected Function (Type of HOW) and your chosen strategies.
Function:
Note: Duplicate this page for each barrier / facilitator you address.
COM-B / TDF / Functions image
Click here to download the Functions (Types of HOWs) image
Download the full resolution image
Enacting change strategies
HOW (change strategy):
What change in behaviour is the HOW supporting?
WHO is the recipient of the strategy? WHO will deliver the strategy?
For / with / on behalf of WHOM is the
strategy being delivered?
WHEN is the strategy
being delivered?
In what context will the strategy be delivered?
What barriers and facilitators does the strategy address?
This template was adapted from: Presseau, J., McCleary, N., Lorencatto, F. et al. Action, actor, context,
target, time (AACTT): a framework for specifying behaviour. Implementation Sci 14, 102 (2019).
https://doi.org/10.1186/s13012-019-0951-x
Knowledge: An awareness of the existence of something
Skills: An ability or proficiency acquired through practice
Memory, Attention, & Decision Processes: The ability to retain
information, focus selectively on aspects of the environment and choose
between two or more alternatives
Behavior Regulation (e.g., habits): Anything aimed at managing or
changing objectively observed or measured actions
Beliefs about Capabilities (e.g., confidence): Acceptance of the truth,
reality, or validity about an ability, talent, or facility that a person can put to
constructive use.
Social/Professional Role/Identity: A coherent set of behaviours and
displayed personal qualities of an individual in a social or work setting
Beliefs about Consequences: Acceptance of the truth, reality, or validity
about outcomes of a behaviour in a given situation
Emotions: A complex reaction pattern, involving experiential, behavioural,
and physiological elements, by which the individual attempts to deal with a
personally significant matter or event
Goals (e.g., I want to): Mental representations of outcomes or end states
that an individual wants to achieve
Intentions (e.g., I plan to): A conscious decision to perform a behaviour or
a resolve to act in a certain way.
Reinforcing Behavior: Increasing the probability of a response by
arranging a dependent relationship, or contingency, between the response
and a given stimulus.
Theoretical Domain Framework (TDF)
Definitions
Cane, J., O’Connor, D., & Michie, S. (2012). Validation of the theoretical domains
framework for use in behaviour change and implementation research. Implementation
Science, 7(37). https://doi.org/10.1186/1748-5908-7-37
Optimism/Pessimism: The confidence that things will happen for the
best or that desired goals will be attained or the tendency to see the
worst aspect of things or believe that the worst will happen
Environmental Context/Resources: Any circumstance of a person's
situation or environment that discourages or encourages the
development of skills and abilities, independence, social competence,
and adaptive behaviour.
Social Influences (e.g., influenced by others): Those interpersonal
processes that can cause individuals to change their thoughts, feelings,
or behaviours.
Functions (Types of HOWs)
Educating: Increasing knowledge or understanding.
Training: Imparting skills.
Modeling: Providing an example for people to aspire to imitate.
Persuading: Using communication to induce positive or negative
feelings or simulate action.
Incentivizing: Creating expectation of reward.
Enabling: Increasing means/reducing barriers to increase capability or
opportunity.
Environmental Restructuring: Changing the physical or social
context.
Restricting: Using rules to reduce the opportunity to engage in target
behaviors (or to increase target behaviors by reducing opportunities to
engage in competing behaviors).
COM-B / TDF image
Click here to download the COM-B / TDF Image
Download the full resolution image
Accreditation: Strive to alter accreditation standards so that they require
or encourage people to do that WHAT. Work to alter membership
organization requirements so that those who want to affiliate with the
organization are encouraged or required to do the WHAT.
Action planning: Detailed plan of how to perform the behavior.
Allocations of funds: Allocate or re-allocate resources to meet needs
(including funds, human resources, physical space…).
Audit and feedback: Collect and summarize performance data related to
the ideal practice over a specified time period and give it to providers and
administrators to monitor, evaluate, and modify behavior.
Build a coalition/network: Identify and build a coalition or network of
individuals and/or organizations who share the same goals, vision, or desire
to implement the THING (e.g., a coalition may be best suited for policy
change; a network may be considered to understand and address
problems, create solutions, and disseminate best practices).
Capture and share local knowledge: Capture local knowledge from
implementation sites on how individuals implemented the WHAT within their
setting and then share knowledge with other sites (e.g., data, resources,
lessons learned, etc.).
Champions: Identify individuals who show interest and prepare them to
dedicate themselves to supporting, marketing, and overcoming indifference
or resistance related to implementing the doing the WHATs.
Change payment schemes or structures: Set system priorities to
encourage implementation of the THING or WHATs by establishing
government/funder/service payer funding formulas, proposal requests, and
how providers are paid for providing the THING or supporting the use of
WHATs.
Definitions
Change Strategies
Change policies: Change a policy (e.g., at an organizational level) to
facilitate the adoption of the WHATs.
Change sites that provide services: Change the setting where the
WHAT is provided (e.g., specialized vs. non specialized facility).
Change the physical environment: Change the physical environment to
support the use of the WHAT (e.g., change layout of a room, add required
equipment).
Community of Practice (CoP): Facilitate the formation of groups of
providers or provider organizations, and foster a collaborative learning
environment to improve implementation of the WHATs (e.g., a CoP where
groups of people with a common interest deepen their knowledge and
expertise in this area by interacting on an ongoing basis).
Competency-based training: Plan and conduct training in the WHATs in
an ongoing manner for all individuals involved.
Data sharing: Acquire, manage, report, and use data to influence
providers to adopt the WHAT.
Develop disincentives: Work to disincentivize the adoption and
implementation of the WHAT.
Educational materials: Create and distribute educational materials (e.g.,
guidelines, manuals, and toolkits) in person, by mail, and/or electronically
to improve knowledge about the WHAT.
Educational sessions: Hold meetings involving the audience (e.g.,
providers, administrators, other organizational groups, and community,
patient/consumer, and families) to improve knowledge about the WHAT.
Engage leaders: Engage and train designated change leaders (e.g.,
within an organization or recruit from outside to fill roles such as
executive sponsor or day-to-day manager) to support implementing the
change.
Facilitation: Provide practice facilitation through a process of problem
solving, enabling, and supporting individuals and organizations to adopt
the WHATs.
Goal setting: Identify or agree on a defined goal (e.g., a planned
behavior change).
Identify early adopters: Identify individuals at local sites that can inspire
others. They can be people tasked with implementing the WHATs and
those that are already applying it.
Implementation coaching: Seek guidance from experts in
implementation to support and provide training for the implementation
initiative.
Integrating the topic into staff meetings: Discuss the WHATs in staff
meetings.
Involve executive boards: Connecting with and engaging executive
boards in the initiative and potentially taking actions to support the
initiative.
Knowledge broker: Use a knowledge broker (e.g., individual, groups,
organizations) to provide a link between researchers, intermediaries,
implementers, and end-users to develop relationships, provide ongoing
support, and build capacity to support implementation of the WHATs.
Leaders supporting the change: Leaders express their support for the
WHATs or the overall vision of where the work is going.
Local consensus process: Engage local providers and other relevant
partners in discussions about whether the chosen problem is important
and whether the selected THING to address it is appropriate (e.g.,
adapting a guideline for a local health system).
Local opinion leaders: Inform providers identified by colleagues as
opinion leaders or "educationally influential" about the WHATs and
support them to influence colleagues to adopt the WHATs.
Mandate change: Have leadership declare the priority of the THING or
the WHAT and their commitment to seeing it implemented.
Mass media: Use media to reach large numbers of people to spread the
word about the THING or the WHAT.
Mentorship: Adopt formal or informal mentorship models to support use
of the WHAT.
Model change: Have experts/leaders/respected colleagues’ model or
simulate the WHATs.
Opinion leaders: Identify individuals who have a lot of influence and are
usually the people who others automatically turn to for advice.
Patients/public as active participants: Prepare
patients/consumers/public to be active in the change (e.g., to ask
questions about the WHAT, and evidence behind the THING).
Peer-to-peer learning: Partner individuals (e.g., in similar roles,
occupations, etc.) for the purpose of shared training and building
capacity.
Problem solving: Analyze or prompt people to analyze barriers and
facilitators to achieving a change or goal.
Prompts/cues: Develop systems to help individuals recall information
and/or prompt them to use the WHAT.
Provide supervision: Provide individuals with ongoing supervision
focused on the WHAT. Supervisors who will supervise individuals should
also be trained in the WHAT.
Public demand: Attempt to influence “market” (public demand) to
increase the need for the THING.
Record systems: Change records systems to allow better capturing of
information and assessment of implementation or innovation outcomes
related to the WHATs (e.g., electronic patient records).
Reminders: Develop reminder systems to help providers recall
information and/or prompt the performance of the WHAT.
Restructure the environment: Physically change the environment to
support the change.
Revise professional roles: Shift and revise roles among professionals
and redesign job characteristics to promote uptake of the WHATs.
Self-monitoring of behavior: Establish a method for the person to
monitor and record their behaviour(s) (e.g., tracking what you eat).
Shadow other experts: Provide ways for designated WHOS to directly
observe other experienced people perform the WHAT.
Simulate change: Use technology or interactions with other to practice
doing the WHAT is a simulated environment (e.g., role play or practicing
with an app).
Social support: Advise on, arrange or provide social support (e.g.,
encouragement, problem solving, and/or emotional support).
Train-the-trainer: Train designated providers or organizations so that
they can train others in the WHATs.
Visit other sites: Visit sites that have been successful in implementing
the WHATs.
Work with educational institutions: Encourage educational institutions
to train providers in the WHATs.

